The busses are pretty good for a small town and they cater to university students. Should be free with your Cougar Card. Walking and cycling are viable options as well, but keep in mind that Pullman is a hilly town and weather can be cold, wet, and snowy in the winter.

my only complaint with the buses would be their poor timing of when they stop all buses, buses usually end at 10pm last I check (was around feb of last year) instead till midnight like they had before so you gotta do the things you need to get done within their time frame, otherwise you're walking home. I had this happen to me where I ended up walking home during the winter or summer past midnight since I worked very late nights or had exams/labs ending well past 10pm 🥲 ended up getting an ebike to save both time and myself from walking +2mi every night up hill with the sidewalks completely covered in ice or in the pouring rain 😂 ebike is by far the best method of transport besides a car at pullman, had no issues going up and down hills covered in heavy snow and ice

I took mine and it was one of the best decisions I made. They have shitty schedules on weekends, and if u want to go to Moscow there’s no buses there so the only way is to drive.
This. I think walking is an option in all weather and the busses are okay during the week and mediocre on the weekend but not being able to take any public transit to Moscow is ass. Sure you could ride bike like 10 Miles one way on the Pullman Moscow trail but that's a bit much. If you want to regularly visit Moscow and surrounding towns bring a car, but if you are ok with being confined to Pullman don't. Also parking on campus is expensive.


You don't need a car but life will be sad. Parking fees for campus hella expensive but if you want to go to the mall you'll need a car. If you don't want to pay crazy parking fees get a friend who has a car 😅

You should be fine yeah, you get free bus fare with your coug card with lots of routes from campus to spots around town

If you can bring your car, then you definitely should but it’s possible without one! I lived in Pullman for about 1.5 years w/o a car & it was manageable by taking the bus & walking (there are other options too but $$). Taking the bus was alright, despite it being packed w/ students, I was able to avoid driving in the snow and save money because parking’s expensive on campus lol buuut going to grocery stores, Moscow, or the airport were times where I needed a ride from others!!!

The bus system in Pullman is good during weekdays, but a little lacking in the evenings and weekends (you can look it up on Pullman Transit's website). It's also free to students. Also, campus parking passes are expensive, especially closer to university buildings.

However, the busses don't run outside of town, so to shop or hang out in Moscow gets tricky, let alone going to Spokane or Lewiston for more options.

you'll survive, but unless you know someone with a car you're pretty much stuck in pullman. you could walk or bike the 7mile paved trail to moscow and take the greyhound or starline to spokane when it is running. you're limited to the bus and your feet.

a bike is honestly a pretty good option, it is very hilly in some areas so an electric assist one is a bonus but you'd be fine without

You should be totally fine with the bus system but I personally loved always having a car around!


Sorry to hear that bud :( I’m a grad student here. You can survive off the buses, but to get out into nature or if you want to go to a local town, like Moscow (which has more things to do) you’ll definitely need a car to get there. From my knowledge there’s no buses that take you to Moscow. So far I have a car here, but I only use it when I need to go to a grocery store, on the weekends, and to Walmart!

My first two years I lived on campus and my roommate had a car. It made our lives much easier. But necessary? No.


Need? No. But keep in mind where you live relative to the buildings your classes are in and bus stops and be aware that drivers here suck at minding pedestrians. If I had a nickle for every time someone stopped on a crosswalk (or curb!) I needed to use, I would have my tuition paid.


It’s Pullman, super small. You could honestly just get a bike or scooter or walk. It might be a nice walk but it’s nothing unrealistic either.