Campus Arrival Guide | WSU International | Washington State University
Skip to site navigation
Skip to site navigation
Give
Future Students
For Admitted Students
Campus Arrival Guide
Welcome to WSU!
Every great journey begins with a few small steps! Our WSU staff, mentors, and volunteers are ready to help you along the way. We have put together a checklist of very important things to do during your first days on campus.
If you are admitted to the Tri-Cities, Vancouver, Everett, or Spokane campus, contact your International New Student Coordinator for more details.
Before You Arrive
Enrolling in Classes
If you are a Bachelor’s degree student, make sure you have:
Registered for a New Coug Orientation Session
Completed the Pre-Orientation Requirements
Enrolled in classes
Have access to your WSU accounts
If you are in the Academic English program, make sure to
Attend Academic English Orientation on August 21
. You have already been enrolled for classes by your program manager, Kimberly Cooper. You can
email
her with questions.
Have access to your WSU accounts
Setting up Accounts
myWSU account
WSU uses multi-factor authentication (MFA), a multi-step account login process that requires users to enter more information than just a password. After your admission is confirmed, you will receive an email with instructions to set up your MFA and student accounts. It is essential that you know your WSU username and password for your WSU student (myWSU) account before you arrive to campus. For additional information, please check the
SSO Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
page.
Learn more about myWSU
myWSU
Your myWSU account is the central location where you will see your class schedule, pay your tuition, and many more important matters.
Log in to your myWSU account
WSU email
We know there are many forms of communication in the world. However, at WSU, your WSU email account is the ONLY way to communicate with important offices on campus, such as Housing, Bursar’s Office, professors, and more.
If you are having trouble with your login information, please contact your International New Student Coordinator, who will connect you with the appropriate IT person.
First Days on Campus
International Student Tutorial
All new international students are automatically registered and required to attend International Student Tutorial. Find more information about the tutorial, including specific session times, on our
International Student Tutorial
page.
New Coug Orientation
All new undergraduate students are required to attend their
New Coug Orientation session
. This is in addition to your required attendance of International Student Tutorial. Make sure you check in on time and
attend the entire duration
of the program. Ask your New Student Coordinator for details if you are not attending the Pullman campus.
Note
Only Academic English students do not need to attend New Coug Orientation.
New Student SEVIS check-in
You are required to check in with SEVIS as a new student within your first week of being on campus. Failure to do so will result in the termination of your SEVIS record and could have a negative impact on your immigration status. Log in to
myPassport
using your WSU username and password and complete the new student check-in.
Get your Cougar Card
Your Cougar Card is needed to use the bus, enter your residence hall, purchase food on campus, and more. If you are arriving on campus Monday – Friday before 5:00 p.m., go to CUB Room 60 with your passport to have your Cougar Card printed right away. If you are arriving on campus after 5:00 p.m. or on the weekend, you must go to one of the temporary Cougar Card kiosks at either
Northside, Hillside, or Gannon Goldsworthy Area Desks.
You must know your WSU username and password to log in to the card kiosks and print your temporary card. If you do not report to the Cougar Card Center within 3 days for your permanent card, you will receive a $25 charge to your myWSU account.
Purchasing Essentials – Walmart Trip
Topic
Details
Trip dates to Walmart
August 15-21
Departure time
7:00 p.m. each day
Departure location
Front door of Bryan Hall (the door facing the library)
Required payment methods
U.S.-authorized bank card (Visa, Mastercard, etc.) or U.S. dollars (cash)
How to reserve a spot
Contact your New Student Coordinator
Purchasing Essentials: Walmart Shopping Trip Information for New Students
Finances
Setting up your bank account/payment methods
You will need a bank account to pay your tuition, fees, housing, and more. We suggest setting up an account with WSECU or US Bank because they are in the CUB at the center of campus. You must open the account in person with your passport. If you wish to open an account with a different bank in town, you may do so, but you will need to take your own transportation to get there.
Paying your tuition and fees
Tuition, on-campus housing, dining plans, and student fees are all billed to and paid on each students’ individual myWSU student account.
Here is additional information on how to pay
tuition and fees.
All tuition and fees are due by the first day of classes each term. For direct entry undergraduate students, there is a payment plan option to make 4 separate payments throughout each semester, which you can sign up for in your myWSU portal.
Support Resources
International Student Peer Mentor Program
This program provides you with a volunteer mentor who can assist you in transitioning to the WSU campus and Pullman. You will be contacted via your WSU email to be paired with a mentor. If you have arrived and do not have a mentor,
email them here
Cougar Health Services
Familiarize yourself with
Cougar Health Services
, our on-campus clinic. As an international student, you have health insurance and can go to Cougar Health Services at any time. It is located in the Washington Building on campus. They have a 24-hour Nurse Line (+1-509-335-3575) that you can call only in the case of an emergency.
If you have questions regarding your immunization record,
please email them
Visit the International Center
Meet other international students on campus! The
International Center
is a common place for students from all around the world to hang out and connect. The International Center also hosts a variety of activities including the Weekly Coffee Hour series each Friday at 3 p.m., English Conversation Tables, Cooking Demonstrations, and more. Stop by the International Center at CUB L46  (on the lowest level of the CUB) to start making friends.
Open Monday-Friday, 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Campus Wifi
All students will be able to log in directly to the WSU campus Wifi, by finding the Wifi network “WSU Wireless”. You are only able to log in with your WSU username and password, so please make sure you have set up your WSU account and know your credentials first.
Taking the bus
As a WSU student, you have free, unlimited access to the local bus system that connects you to locations on and off campus. Just show your Cougar Card and you can get right on! Choose your location on Google Maps and you will automatically see bus
stops and schedule
SIM Cards/Phone Service
WSU provides a free SIM card upon arrival if you request our airport pickup services, or you can visit our Admissions office Bryan Hall 108 to receive one as well. These are from Campus SIMS and use the Mint Mobile network. You can choose to obtain an eSIM by downloading the
Mint App here
. If you’d like, you can also choose to start a contract with another network provider in town, such as Verizon, AT&T, or T-Mobile.
Back to the top