New Student Checklist | WSU International | Washington State University
Skip to site navigation
Skip to site navigation
Give
Future Students
For Admitted Students
New Student Checklist
Do You Have Your Visa?
Follow the next steps for the program you are admitted to
Bachelor’s Degree
Take action now, by registering for New Coug Orientation, securing housing, and sharing your arrival plans to Pullman with us! Contact your New Student Coordinator if you are admitted for Tri-Cities, Vancouver, Everett, or Spokane Campus.
Orientation and Classes
Register for New Coug Orientation
After you are registered for a New Coug Orientation session, complete the Pre-Orientation Requirements!
Pre-Orientation Requirements
Secure Housing
Pullman campus is our residential campus. All other campuses require you to live in off-campus housing.
At the Pullman campus, all unmarried first-year students under 20 years of age are
required to live in a university residence hall
for 1 academic year.
(Students who completed college-level work in high school are considered first-year students for housing purposes).
Explore the WSU on-campus
residence hall
and
apartment
options available!
WSU housing
Apply for Pullman On-Campus Housing
Pullman Students Above Age 20 Only
Explore Off-Campus Housing
If you are admitted to the Tri-Cities, Vancouver, Everett, or Spokane campus, contact your International New Student Coordinator for more details.
Tell us when you’re coming!
Important dates: Fall 2026
Earliest move-in date
On-campus housing contracts begin
New Coug Orientation (required bachelor’s only)
International Student Tutorial (required for all int’l students)
Classes begin
August 15th
August 15th
Choose a session August 17th through 20th
August 21st
August 24th
Tell us exactly when you will arrive
Fall: Tell Us When You Are Arriving!
Pullman campus
You will need to first fly to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA), which will be your port of entry to the United States. From there, campus is just a short 45-minute flight away.
We highly recommend you fly directly into the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport (PUW). It is just about 3 kilometres away from campus. Airport pick-up services are available for free from PUW to campus.
Academic English
Secure Housing
Pullman campus is our residential campus. All other campuses require you to live in off-campus housing.
At the Pullman campus, all unmarried first-year students under 20 years of age are
required to live in a university residence hall
for 1 academic year
. (Students who completed college-level work in high school are considered first-year students for housing purposes).
Explore the WSU on-campus
residence hall
and
apartment
options available!
WSU housing
Apply for Pullman On-Campus Housing
Pullman Students Above Age 20 Only
Explore Off-Campus Housing
Orientation and Classes
Attend Academic English Orientation on August 21st.
You will be automatically enrolled in classes by our staff.
Classes begin August 24th.
Tell us when you’re coming!
Tell us exactly when you will arrive
Fall: Tell Us When You Are Arriving!
Pullman campus
You will need to first fly to Seattle-Tacoma International Airport (SEA), which will be your port of entry to the United States. From there, campus is just a short 45-minute flight away.
We highly recommend you fly directly into the Pullman-Moscow Regional Airport (PUW). It is just about 3 kilometres away from campus. Airport pick-up services are available for free from PUW to campus.
More Steps for All Students
myWSU account
WSU uses multi-factor authentication (MFA), a multi-step account login process that requires users to enter more information than just a password. After your admission is confirmed, you will receive an email with instructions to set up your MFA and student accounts. It is essential that you know your WSU username and password for your WSU student (myWSU) account before you arrive on campus. For additional information, please check the
SSO Multi-Factor Authentication (MFA)
page.
myWSU
Your myWSU account is the central location where you will see your class schedule, pay your tuition, and many more important matters.
Learn more about myWSU
WSU email
We know there are many forms of communication in the world. However, at WSU, your WSU email account is the ONLY way to communicate with important offices on campus such as Housing, Bursar’s Office, professors, and more.
If you are having trouble with your login information
, please contact your International New Student Coordinator, who will connect you with the appropriate IT person.
For transfer students only – Transfer credits and syllabi
If you are transferring from a college of university, WSU will conduct a transfer credit report. Once your transfer credit report is complete, your academic advisor will be able to help you select appropriate classes during your first term at WSU.
If you are transferring from a non-US university, submit your English-language syllabi on
our Course Equivalency Evaluation Request Form
. This will ensure your credits transfer to WSU in the most helpful way possible toward your degree. Submit your syllabi and this form as early as possible so WSU has enough time to review and update your transfer credits.
Prepare for travel
Packing your essentials
Travel documents and items include:
Passport with visa inside
Form I-20 (please print a hard copy of all pages of your I-20 for travel and immigration purposes)
WSU confirmation letter
Proof of financial ability
It is important to
travel with money
! This includes a bank card that is ready to use for international travel or physical money that can be used in the countries you travel through. U.S. dollars are highly preferred, especially upon arrival in the U.S., in case of emergency.
It is important to
travel with all the chargers
for your electronic devices, including cell/mobile phone, laptop, and more. Also, the U.S. uses Type B electrical plugs, so we suggest you buy the appropriate adapter for your devices upon arrival.
WSU offers a free SIM card for your arrival on campus. You can choose to have the free SIM card mailed to your physical address in your home country before you leave, or receive a SIM card upon arrival. The 2 companies we collaborate with are
studentSIMS
and
campusSIMS
(please click on each link to learn more about these options). If you are bringing your own phone, please read about the
compatibility of your phone
. (Please note that WSU does not endorse any wireless carrier.)
Go to the
Traveling to Campus
page for more details.
Have questions?
Your International New Student Coordinator and current international students are ready to help!
Jake Babb
International New Student Coordinator, DSO
Office and WhatsApp phone:
+1 509-335-3867
Email:
jacob.babb@wsu.edu
Talk to me on WhatsApp
Schedule a personal appointment with me
Meet Your International Student Ambassadors