Transportation | Pullman Campus | Washington State University
Community Life
Campus Housing
Transportation
Visit & Travel
It’s easy to get to Pullman
Transportation
Located in the hills of Eastern Washington, the WSU Pullman campus is easier to access than you may think:
5-hour drive from Seattle
1-hour flight from Seattle to the Pullman-Moscow Airport
1-hour flight from Portland to Spokane
3 airports within a 90-minute drive, located in Pullman, Lewiston, and Spokane
Will I need a car living in Pullman?
For many people, the answer is no. There’s a very efficient
transit system
to and from campus. It’s free for faculty, staff, and students (Others can pay per ride or purchase a pass inexpensively). Most students who bring cars to campus find that using the transit system is more convenient. They leave their cars parked most of the semester.
Campus map
Pullman map
Dig deeper
Buses and shuttle vans
Ride sharing
Biking
Accessible transportation options
Parking
Buses and shuttle vans
Around town and around campus
Pullman Transit
buses are free for students, staff, and faculty. Flash your Cougar Card to ride to nearby destinations on and off campus.
To and from Spokane International Airport
The Starline Collection (formerly Wheatland Express) offers a fee-based seasonal charter
shuttle service
Spokane International Airport
(GEG).
To and from Seattle
The Starline Collection (formerly Wheatland Express) provides charter bus services to and from the greater Seattle area during university
vacations
(Thanksgiving, winter, and spring breaks) and
holiday weekends
(Labor Day and Veteran’s Day).
To and from Lewiston Nez Perce County Regional Airport
The Lewiston Nez Perce County Regional Airport (LWS) offers a fee-based
shuttle service
to and from the LWS airport for WSU students, staff, and faculty with required boarding passes.
Ride sharing
Vanpools
Park free during the day at a Park and Ride lot in the area and then catch a Pullman Transit bus from the lot to campus. The University coordinates
vanpools
to and from these communities:
Moscow
Colfax/Steptoe
Lewiston/Clarkston Valley
Commuting from Spokane? Use Spokane Transit’s
CommuteFinderNW
to find a carpool or vanpool.
Rental cars
Vehicle rentals are available from four Pullman-Moscow businesses:
Enterprise Rent-A-Car
(Pullman)
Budget Car Rental
(Pullman Moscow Regional Airport)
Avis
(Pullman Moscow Regional Airport)
Hertz
(Pullman Moscow Airport)
Taxi services
College Cabs
: 855-829-4487, college.gata@gmail.com
Pro Cab LLC
: 509-338-0500, procab99163@gmail.com
Pullman Taxi
: 509-339-9998
Moscow Taxi
: 208-892-4544
Lyft
Uber
Biking
Summer night time view of Coug Bikes at the Northside Complex on the campus of Washington State University, Thursday, August 27, 2020.
Commuting
Commuting to campus by bike is another option. Covered and uncovered bike racks are available near building entrances across campus.
Electric Bike and Scooter Share Program
Spin
offers a fleet of ebikes and escooters on campus. Available to anyone and can be rented for a fee through the Spin app, which can be downloaded through the
App Store
and
Google Play
Accessible transportation options
Cougar Accessible Transportation Services
The CATS program
offers accessible transportation to students with permanent or temporary mobility disabilities/conditions. Rides are scheduled on an individualized first-come, first-serve basis. The program is powered by student fees.
Pullman Dial-a-Ride
The
Pullman Dial-a-Ride
offers accessible transportation to Pullman transit customers who are at least 65 years of age or those who are unable to ride a regular Pullman Transit fixed route bus because of their disability. Dial-a-ride provides door-to-door service but can also provide service to transfer stations or bus stops to connect with fixed-route bus services.
Parking
On-campus parking
You need a permit to park on campus. Prices vary depending upon the type of
parking permit
you buy.
Just visiting?
You’ll need a visitor parking permit. Get yours for a nominal fee at the
visitor center
Campus parking map
Find
zones where you can use your parking permit
Home football game traffic and parking
On game days, expect
detours and parking changes
. Arrive early. Avoid traffic by using the
free Game Day Park & Ride